===== Page 1 =====
Integruotų paslaugų tinklai ir debesų technologijos 
 
Laboratory work No. 5 
 
Objective 
The purpose of this paper is to introduce the concept of function as a service (FaaS) 
Intro 
 
"Azure Functions is a serverless cloud architecture that allows you to deploy and execute a 
piece of code without the need for a server infrastructure, web server or other configurations. 
In addition, Azure Functions can be used to write code in a variety of languages such as C#, 
Java, JavaScript, TypeScript and Python. 
 
"Azure Functions is an event-driven, serverless computing platform used to run code snippets 
in Azure. "Azure Functions provides flexibility in deploying applications and building 
automation. If you are modernising your application from on-premises server infrastructure, 
consider moving to FaaS. 
 
Serverless computing hosts and executes code in the cloud. It is "serverless" in the sense that 
no servers need to be installed or maintained to run the code. 
 
The code runs on the servers of the cloud service provider. Developers write and deploy the 
code without worrying about the infrastructure needed to run it. 
 
Typically, when a developer needs to run code, he needs to set up and maintain his own 
server. Configuring servers for applications is a time -consuming activity that is often not a 
developer's strong point. 
 
Serverless computing or serverless architecture removes this infrastructure barrier for 
developers. The servers still run the code, but developers no longer have to worry about 
them. Developers can quickly deploy code without waiting for system administrators to install 
servers, patch operating systems or configure the network. 
 
With serverless resources, you pay only for the computing resources needed to run the code. 
This consumption model can save costs because computing resources are used only when 
they are needed. 
 
Now that you only pay for resources when you need them, you can quickly scale up or scale 
down volumes using autoscale. Autoscaling adds or removes computing resources to match 
changes in demand. Computing resources include elements such as processor, memo ry and 
network. 
 
 
Azure Functions vs. Functions Apps vs. Functions 
 
When working with Azure Functions, you'll see a lot of "features". This may seem confusing 
to a beginner. You need to know the names of the three "functions". 
 
Azure Functions (capitalised) is the name of the service itself, for example Azure Automation, 
Azure Virtual Machines or Azure Storage Accounts.

===== Page 2 =====
Integruotų paslaugų tinklai ir debesų technologijos 
 
Function App is a single application that uses Azure Functions. 
 
Function - This is a fully code-defined function. You can have multiple functions (lower case) 
within a single Function App. 
 
Triggers 
 
"Azure Functions is "event -driven". This attribute specifies how the code executed by Azure 
Functions starts. A function starts with [some] event. That event can be many different things, 
each with a particular trigger. 
 
A trigger is responsible for the execution of an Azure Function, and there are dozens of 
triggers to choose from. Here are some examples of events: 
- HTTP trigger: Receiving an HTTP request, for example when interacting with an API to 
retrieve application information. 
- Timer trigger: Time trigger: running on a schedule, for example sending reminders 
about upcoming meetings once a day. 
 
Tasks 
1. Log in to the Azure console 
2. Select the Function App resource 
3. Select a region, give it a name, etc. 
4. You will need to select or create a storage account 
5. Plan - Consumption 
6. Enable monitoring - Insight 
HTTP function  
1. After creating a resource - go to the resource 
2. In the Overview window, locate the Create in Azure portal 
 
3. Click Create and select "Develop in portal" 
4. Select "HTTP trigger"

===== Page 3 =====
Integruotų paslaugų tinklai ir debesų technologijos 
 
5. Select the function name 
6. Select the authorization level - Anonymous 
7. In the next window. Find "Code + Test" 
8. In the window, find the Get function URL 
 
9. In the Get function URL window, select default and then copy the link. 
 
10. Copy the link to your browser. Add an additional parameter ?name=<your name > at 
the end of the URL. What do you see? Can you tweak the code and come up with 
another attribute? 
11. Find the Log stream menu, watch what happens when you call your function. 
12. Show how the logs loo 
Time function 
1. Use the previous procedure, but this time choose Time Trigger instead of Http 
2. In the "Code + Test" section, find the configuration and readme files. 
3. Change the code to execute every 1 (one) minute 
4. Go to Monitor -> Logs 
5. Show that the function runs every minute. 
 
In your report, please provide: 
- Work progress 
- Answer the questions asked in the course of the work
