===== Page 1 =====
Integruotų paslaugų tinklai ir debesų technologijos 
 
Laboratory work No. 6 
 
Objective  – simulate a connection between different cloud instances virtual networks using 
site to site VPN connection. 
 
Software – portal.azure.com, draw.io 
 
Intro 
 
The aim of this lab work is to simulate networking between two cloud platforms. This time 
you will have to create two groups of resources in different regions and use IPsec technology 
to connect the different networks. During this lab you will create diffe rent virtual networks 
(note the addressing in the diagram) and virtual servers between which you will check the 
connection at the end of the lab. 
 
 
 
Tasks 
1. Create two different resource groups in two different Azure regions. 
2. Within each resource group create virtual network and assign proper IP addresses 
3. Create a gateway subnet (look for the instructions) 
4. Create a virtual network gateway (creating a gateway can take 20-45 minutes).  
a. You won‘t need active-active mode 
b. You can use VpnGw1 SKU  
5. Create two VM machines in different resources groups and assign to local virtual 
network you have created before. Do not create public IP addresses. 
6. Create a local network gateway . Be careful . Here you have to setup remote site 
settings. Remote site public IP address and virtual network subnet. 
7. After virtual network gateway and local network gateway setup is done, create a VPN 
connection: 
a. Connection type – Site-to-site (IPsec) 
b. IKE protocol – IKEv2 
8. After both Connections are created you have to setup the same preshared key. Do it 
via Setting -> Authentication 
9. After the deployment is finished, you can view the connection on 
the Connections page of the virtual network gateway. The status changes 
from Unknown to Connecting and then to Succeeded and Connected. 
10. Check connectivity between virtual machines  by using private IP addresses (tip: use 
serial console feature) 
11. Check logs and other metrics 
12. Cleanup resources

===== Page 2 =====
Integruotų paslaugų tinklai ir debesų technologijos 
 
For more detailed instructions follow: Tutorial site-to-site portal 
Questions 
1. Explain the purpose of setting up a site -to-site VPN gateway in Azure. How does it 
benefit organizations? 
2. What are the key components required to establish a site -to-site VPN connection in 
Azure? 
3. Why is it necessary to create a virtual network before setting up a VPN gateway? 
4. What are the different types of VPN gateways available in Azure, and how do they 
differ from each other? 
5. Explain the role of the shared key in establishing a secure connection between two 
sites? 
6. What troubleshooting steps would you take if the site-to-site VPN connection fails to 
establish? Provide some common issues and their possible resolutions. 
7. How can you monitor the performance and health of a site-to-site VPN connection in 
Azure? What tools or metrics would you use for monitoring purposes? 
In your report, please provide: 
- Work progress. 
- Answer the questions asked in the course of the work.
